# 1.1: Setting Up Your First Model

Let's setup the bare bones skeleton of our first model. First decide where your Ixa-related code is going to live on your computer. It's probably easiest to just have your models in the same folder as the Ixa source repository if you are using the Ixa library from source. On my computer, that's the `Code` directory in my `home` folder (or `~` for short). I will use my directory structure for illustration purposes in this section. Just modify the commands for wherever you chose to store your models.

```
ðŸ  home/
â””â”€â”€ ðŸ—‚ï¸ Code/
    â”œâ”€â”€ ðŸ—‚ï¸ ixa/           (Ixa source repository)
    â””â”€â”€ ðŸ—‚ï¸ disease_model/ (Our first model)
```

## Create a new project with Cargo
Navigate to the directory you have chosen for your models and then use `Cargo`Â to initialize a new Rust project called `disease_model`.

```bash
cd ~/Code
cargo new --bin disease_model
```

Cargo creates a directory named `disease_model` with a project skeleton for us. Open the newly created `disease_model` directory in your favorite IDE, like [VSCode](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (free) or [RustRover](https://www.jetbrains.com/rust/). 

```
ðŸ—‚ï¸ disease_model/
â”œâ”€â”€ .git/
â”œâ”€â”€ ðŸ—‚ï¸ src/
â”‚   â””â”€â”€ ðŸ“„ main.rs
â”œâ”€â”€ .gitignore
â””â”€â”€ ðŸ“„ Cargo.toml
```

> [!INFO] Source Control
> The `.gitignore` file lists all the files and directories you don't want to include in source control. For a Rust project you should at least have `target` and `Cargo.lock` listed in the `.gitignore`. I also make a habit of listing `.vscode` and `.idea`, the directories VS Code and JetBrains respectively store IDE project settings. The `.git` directory is where Git stores its database. It is automatically ignored. You shouldn't touch this directory.
> 
> For simplicity I will suppress these hidden files and directories from now on.

## Setup `Cargo.toml`
The `Cargo.toml` file stores information about your project, including metadata used when publishing your project to Crates.io and which libraries your project depends on. Even though we won't be publishing the crate to Crates.io, it's a good idea to get into the habit of adding at least the author(s) and a brief description of the project. 
```toml
# Cargo.toml
{{#include ../../models/disease_model/Cargo.toml}}
```
We also specify our dependencies. In this case, I am telling Cargo to use the version of the Ixa library located on my computer at a particular path. If you are using a version of Ixa from the Crates.io registry, you need only specify the version number:
```toml
[dependencies]  
ixa = "0.1.0"
```
We also depend on the `serde` library and it's "derive" feature. Your IDE might have a feature that adds dependencies for you automatically when you use an item from the library. 
## Executing the Ixa model
We are almost ready to execute our first model. Edit `src/main.rs` to look like this:
```rust
use ixa::Context;  
  
fn main() {  
    let mut context = Context::new();  
    context.execute();  
  
    info!("Simulation finished executing");
}
```
The first line says we want to use the `Context` type from the `ixa` library. A `Context` keeps track of the state of the world for our model and is the primary way code interacts with anything in the running model. The `mut` keyword stands for *mutable*. The first line of the `main()` function says we are creating a new variable named `context` that we want to be allowed to modify if we wish, and we are storing a new instance of `Context` in the variable. Calling the `execute()` method on `context` executes the model. Of course, our model doesn't actually *do* anything or even contain any data, so `context.execute()` checks that there is no work to do and immediately returns. 

In the next section we will add people to our model.